CMM Program Notes - Last updated for release 1.26 - 2009/11/11
==============================================================


Overview
--------

This program is a debugging tool for LifeSafer, WR2, WR3, V7 and G-Series
alcolock devices.  It can also be used to communicate with other devices that
use one of the supported serial communications protocols.

Only one copy of the program can be running on each instance of a Windows OS.
Trying to start a second copy will bring the main window of the running
program to the foreground (or restore it if it was minimized).  Also, only one
copy of the program can be running from the same default directory.

The main version of the program ("cmm.exe") does not use any command line
parameters.  A second version of the program ("cmm-b.exe") is intended for
running in batch mode where the text entered on the command line is processed
as though it were supplied as a command and then the program terminates
(without opening any windows).  See the section "Batch Mode" for more details.

The main window and the communications log window are always opened when the
program is started.  There are three other windows that can be opened from the
main window's menu.  Two are debug display windows (a port monitor window and
a port activity window).  The third is a WR3-parameters window than can be
used to facilitate reading and writing WR3 parameter messages.

The windows have their state saved when the program is terminated and are
restarted in the same position and state the next time the program starts.

Closing the main CMM window will close all the other windows and terminate the
program.  There is also an "Exit" option on the "File" menu that can be used
to terminate the program.

Each of the debug display windows has a standard popup menu that can be
activated by right-clicking the mouse on the window's client area (or by
pressing the menu key on the keyword while the window is active).  The menu
has two options, the first lets the user change the window's font, the second
clears the window.  The WR3-parameters window also has a popup menu but the
options are specific to that window.

The number of message lines shown on the communications log window can be
increased or decreased by changing the vertical size of the window.  The
number of lines of bytes shown on the port monitor window can be increased or
decreased by changing the vertical size of the window.  The number of bytes
shown on the port activity window can be increased or decreased by changing
the horizontal size of the window.

Communications is configured for the current device type and is automatically
activated when the program is started.  The serial port or USB connection is
normally left closed and is only opened when a message is sent.  It remains
open as long as activity occurs but will close after 10 seconds of inactivity.
The program is not meant to communicate with devices that send unsolicited
messages at infrequent intervals.


File Locations
--------------

A file "cmm.$$$" is used to store program settings (such as window positions).
The file is created in the default directory.  The file is also used as a lock
file and prevents more than one instance of the program being run using the
same settings file.

All other files used by the program are also located in the default directory.


Batch Mode
----------

Executable file "cmm-b.exe" can be used to run a single command in a batch
mode.  The entire command line (excluding the program name) is processed as
though it was entered as a command.  The program does not open any windows but
runs in the background and terminates automatically when the command has been
processed.

All response messages received from the connected device are written as
hex-encoded text to a file called "batch.$$$".  A carriage return and line feed
are added to the end of each message.  Records are added to the end of the file
each time the program is run.

If no messages are received then it is possible that no output will be written
to "batch.$$$" (and the file will not be created if it does not exist).

The same records (if any) are also written to the standard output.

The program uses the current settings from file "cmm.$$$" when running in batch
mode.  Most settings (e.g. logging communications to disk) have to be set
manually using the normal "cmm.exe" program (i.e. they cannot be modified in
batch mode).


Main Window Menus
-----------------

This is a list of the main window's menus and menu options with a brief
description of each.

The current values for the settings on the "Settings" menu are saved when the
program is terminated and are restored the next time the program is run.

  File - Exit

    Closes all windows and terminates program.

  Settings - Serial port

    Sets the serial port used for serial communications.  Values from COM1 to
    COM9 can be selected directly.  A "Custom" option is also available to set
    the serial port to other values.

    This menu option has hotkeys for COM1 to COM9 (Ctrl+1 through Ctrl+9) that
    can be used from any window.

  Settings - Device type

    Sets the device type, which determines the serial port settings and the
    communications protocol.  Supported devices are LifeSafer, WR2, WR3, V7
    and G-Series.  There is also an additional Raw V7 mode for communicating
    with a V7 device that is in bootloader mode.

  Settings - WR3 passthrough

    Turns WR3 passthrough mode on or off.  If WR3 passthrough mode is on then
    all messages sent to a WR3 device will have the passthrough bit set.  If
    WR3 passthrough mode is off then the passthrough bit is left unchanged
    (which will be clear for generated commands but may be set when the user
    sends a raw message).

    This menu option has a hotkey (Ctrl+T) that can be used from any window.

  Settings - Log communications to disk

    Turns disk logging on or off.  Disk logging writes all messages that are
    displayed in the communications log window (whether window is open or not)
    to file "cmm.log".  Records are always appended to this file so it needs
    to be manually removed if growing too large or if an empty starting log
    file is desired.  The logging will stop if the file becomes larger than
    5MB.

    The file is closed when disk logging is turned off so it is possible to
    rename or delete "cmm.log" while the program is running.

    The records written to disk contain the full message contents even though
    long messages may be truncated on the screen display.

  Commands - Upload from file

    Uploads a log file to a WR2 device or uploads a memory file to a WR3
    device.  Brings up a file selection dialog that lets the user select file
    to upload.

    The WR2 log file must be a raw log dump in the same format as the files
    created by the SDP program.

    The WR3 memory file must be a binary file containing the raw bytes to be
    stored at the current WR3 page and address (as shown on the main window).

    The same command can be entered using the command-line interface.

    This function is only supported by WR2 devices with firmware version 3.32
    or later.

  Commands - Dump to file

    Dump the contents of a WR3 device starting at the current page and address
    to a disk file.  Brings up a file selection dialog that lets the user
    select file to be written.

    The same command can be entered using the command-line interface.

  Commands - Dump event log to file

    Dump the contents of a WR3 event log to a disk file.  Brings up a file
    selection dialog that lets the user select file to be written.

    The same command can be entered using the command-line interface.

  Commands - Clear event log

    Clears the contents of a WR3 event log.

    The same command can be entered using the command-line interface.

  Commands - Backup EEPROM

    Backs up contents of a WR3 EEPROM to flash.

    The same command can be entered using the command-line interface.

  Commands - Restore EEPROM

    Restores contents of a WR3 backup in flash to EEPROM.

    The same command can be entered using the command-line interface.

  Commands - Update firmware

    Updates firmware of a WR3 device using a specified file containing
    Motorola S2 records.  Brings up a file selection dialog that lets the
    user select file to read.

    Currently only writes bytes to memory locations defined on S2 records.
    Flash must already have been erased.

    The same command can be entered using the command-line interface.

  Options - Clear debug windows

    Clears the communications log window, the port monitor window, and the
    port activity window.

  Windows - Communications log

    Opens the communications log window.

  Windows - Port monitor

    Opens the port monitor window.

  Windows - Port activity

    Opens the port activity window.

  Windows - WR3 Parameters

    Opens the WR3 parameters window.


Device Interface Commands
-------------------------

The CMM program interacts with a connected device and can also accept some
control commands using a command-line interface.  Commands are entered in a
field on the main window.

Some commands are also available from the Commands menu.  Commands are also
generated when using the WR3 parameters window.

Commands are processed when the "Enter" key is pressed.  Leading spaces and
trailing spaces are always removed before the command is decoded.  The command
line is not cleared after it is processed so that the same command can be sent
repeatedly by simply pressing the "Enter" key again.

A history of up to 50 commands is kept.  If a command matches an existing
command on the history list the older command is removed (leaving the current
command at the top of the list).  Commands that consists of only a single
character are not added to the history list.  The command at the top of the
history list is placed into the edit input area when the program starts.

Messages are not queued and a new command will be ignored if the previous
command has not completed.  A command is completed when either a response is
received or a timeout occurrs.

All commands are identified by a one letter code.  Most commands are usually
followed by one or more numeric values.  Command codes may be upper or lower
case letters (though converted to lower case when processed).  All numeric
values are hexadecimal by default.  To supply a numeric value as a decimal
number the numeric value must be preceeded by a period (e.g. ".34").

One or more spaces may separate the command code and the first value but no
spaces are required.  Spaces are required, however, to separate additional
values (unless the decimal prefix character is used to start a value, or if a
text string is started or ended, or if a time string is started).

Device commands not supported by the current device are ignored.


Control Commands
----------------

"Z nnn"     - Set the current serial port to "COMnnn".  Note that the value
	      is still by default processed as hexidecimal.


LifeSafer Commands
------------------

"F n"       - Send message using byte values loaded from file "cmm.00n", where
	      "n" is a number from 1 to 9.

"M nn nn.." - Send message using supplied byte values.
	    - To enter text enclose the characters within double quotes (").
	    - Message can be zero-length (i.e. no supplied values).


WR2 Commands
------------

"A nnnn"    - Set the current memory address to "nnnn".

"A"         - Show current address.

"D nnnn"    - Display a block of memory starting at address "nnnn".  The number
	      of bytes in a block is always 128.

"D"         - Display next block of memory (i.e. increment current address by
	      128 and then display memory).

"F n"       - Send message using byte values loaded from file "cmm.00n", where
	      "n" is a number from 1 to 9.  The message-length byte is added
	      automatically.

"M nn nn.." - Send message using supplied byte values.  The message-length byte
	      is added automatically.
	    - To enter text enclose the characters within double quotes (").

"R"         - Set address to the value set by the last "A nnnn" or "D nnnn"
	      command and redisplay memory block.

"U logfile" - Upload the specified log file to the WR2 device.  The log file
	      must be a raw log dump in the same format as the files created by
	      the SDP program.  An upload command is also available from the
	      Commands menu.

	    - This function is only supported by WR2 devices with firmware
	      version 3.32 or later.


WR3 Commands
------------

"A nnnn"    - Set the current memory address to "nnnn".

"A"         - Show current address.

"B nnnn"    - Set number of bytes to dump (using the "W" command) to "nnnn"
	      bytes.  The initial default value is 128 bytes.

"B"         - Show current number of bytes to dump.

"C"         - Clear the contents of the WR3 log (either primary or secondary as
	      set using the "E" command).

"D nnnn"    - Display a block of memory starting at address "nnnn".  The number
	      of bytes in a block is 128 by default but can be set to a
	      different value using the "N nn" command.

"D"         - Display next block of memory (i.e. increment current address by
	      the current number of bytes to display and then display memory).

"E n"       - Set type of log to be used for log dump and clear commands. Set
	      "n" to zero to use secondary log.  Set "n" to one (or any other
	      non-zero value) to use primary log.

"E"         - Show current type of log to be used for log dump and clear
	      commands ("Primary" or "Secondary").

"F n"       - Send message using byte values loaded from file "cmm.00n", where
	      "n" is a number from 1 to 9.

"G file"    - Dump the contents of the WR3 log (either primary or secondary as
	      set using the "E" command) as binary data to file "file".  When
	      running in batch mode a listing file called "batch.lst" will
	      also be created that contains log records written as hex-encoded
	      text (with a carriage return and line feed added to the end of
	      each record).

"G"         - Dump the contents of the WR3 log without writing binary data to a
	      file.

"K"         - Back up contents of a WR3 EEPROM to flash.

"L nn"      - Set number of bytes in upload and dump messages to "nn" bytes.
	      The initial default value is 180 bytes.

"L"         - Show current number of bytes in upload and dump messages.

"M nn nn.." - Send message using supplied byte values.
	    - To enter text enclose the characters within double quotes (").
	    - To enter a date and time and have it converted into a 4-byte
	      elapsed seconds value preceed the date and time with a number
	      sign (i.e. enter #YYYYMMDDHHMMSS).

"N nn"      - Set number of bytes to display to "nn" bytes.  The initial
	      default value is 128 bytes.

"N"         - Show current number of bytes to display.

"P nn"      - Set memory page to "nn".  The default value is page 0.

"P"         - Show current memory page.

"R"         - Set address to the value set by the last "A nnnn" or "D nnnn"
	      command and redisplay memory block.

"S"         - Restores contents of a WR3 backup in flash to EEPROM.

"T n"       - Set passthrough mode. Set "n" to zero to turn passthrough mode
	      off.  Set "n" to one (or any other non-zero value) to turn
	      passthrough mode on.

"T"         - Show current passthrough mode setting ("On" or "Off").

"U file"    - Upload the contents of the specified file to the WR3 device
	      starting at the current page and address.  The file is truncated
	      if too large.  An upload command is also available from the
	      Commands menu.

"W file"    - Dump the contents of the WR3 device starting at the current page
	      and address to the specified file.  The number of bytes to dump
	      is set using the "B nnnn" command.  A dump command is also
	      available from the Commands menu.

"X file"    - Update the firmware for a WR3 device from S2 records in the
              specified file (i.e. writes bytes to page and address specified
	      on each S2 record).  An update command is also available from
	      the Commands menu.


V7, Raw V7 and G-Series Commands
--------------------------------

"F n"       - Send message using byte values loaded from file "cmm.00n", where
	      "n" is a number from 1 to 9.

"M nn nn.." - Send message using supplied byte values.
	    - To enter text enclose the characters within double quotes (").
	    - To enter a date and time and have it converted into a 4-byte
	      elapsed seconds value preceed the date and time with a number
	      sign (i.e. enter #YYYYMMDDHHMMSS).



WR3-Parameters Window
---------------------

The WR3-parameters window displays a read buffer containing the last values
read from a WR3 device and a write buffer containing values to be used when
writing to the device.

Each parameter message type ("Client Settings", "Setup", "Configuration",
"Timing", "Hardware" and "Miscellaneous") is displayed on a separate screen.
The Tab key is used to move between the parameter screens.

Each screen has 10 write buffers for storing parameter values.  The Page Up and
Page Down keys are used to move between buffers.

Hex digits ("0" to "9", "A" to "F") can be entered to update the current byte
value in the write buffer.  Backspace will reset the first digit.

Values in the current write buffer can be modified manually or copied from the
values in the read buffer.  The number of bytes stored in the buffers can be
increased beyond the current message length.

Commands to read or write to the device are disabled if the device type is not
set to WR3.

Tab         - Switch to next parameter message type.

"R"         - Read current parameter values from the WR3 device into the read
	      buffer.

"W"         - Write parameter values from current write buffer to the WR3
	      device.

Arrow keys  - Move current byte position.

Space       - Copy value of current byte from read buffer to write buffer.

"S"         - Copy entire contents of read buffer to current write buffer.

">"         - Increase number of bytes in write buffer (up to 240).

"<"         - Decrease number of bytes in write buffer (if greater than number
	      of bytes in read buffer).

"="         - Set number of bytes in write buffer to number of bytes in read
	      buffer.

Page Up     - Display previous write buffer.

Page Down   - Display next write buffer.


** end of file **
